What is happening with the North Carolina?

Currently the race in North Carolina's 9th Congressional District is under investigation.
Initially, the Republican candidate, Mark Harris, led the Democrat, Dan McCready, by 905 votes. But then it came to light that the Harris campaign had agreed to pay over $34,000 to a political consultant to conduct the fraudulent door-to-door operation.


ASSOCIATED PRESS
North Carolina authorities are still investigating. Even Republicans are annoyed, because there is the possibility that Harris used similar dirty tricks to defeat his opponent in the Republican primary, and efforts are underway to dump Harris in favor of a less tainted Republican candidate.

State officials will almost surely order a new election. If Harris is somehow certified as the winner, the incoming House Democrats will refuse to seat him. Either way, the election is likely to get a do-over.

This brand of election fraud is in line with a long history of Republican dirty tricks, winding back to Richard Nixon’s “ballot security” program run by William Rehnquist in Arizona in 1964, aimed at intimidating black and Latino voters, long before Rehnquist was elevated to the Supreme Court.

The history of state officials, mostly in the South, using hazing techniques  ranging from bogus exams to murder to deprive black Americans of the right to vote, connects the Jim Crow era to new tricks legalized by the Supreme Court after the court invalidated major sections of the Voting Rights Act in the 5-4 Shelby County v. Holder ruling of 2013.

So, here is a modest proposal. Republicans have demanded a crackdown on voting fraud, in the name of safeguarding democracy. But taking away someone’s vote improperly is every bit as fraudulent and every bit as much an assault on democratic rights as voting improperly.

And while cases of improper voting are vanishingly rare, cases of improperly blocking the right to vote are pervasive. What’s worse, denial of the franchise is typically perpetrated by public officials who have the full force of the law on their side.

But, as far as I can tell, nobody has ever been criminally charged with denying a citizen the right to vote. And that, of course, is the real form of widespread ballot fraud.

The Supreme Court, in its Shelby ruling, did leave room for Congress to revise and reinstate the Voting Rights Act. This will be one of the first orders of business for the new Democratic House in January. If the Senate refuses, it will become a high priority when Democrats take both houses and the presidency in 2020.

And when Congress does reinstate the Voting Rights Act, the new law should include criminal penalties for denying someone’s right to vote. Republicans, given their profound concern for the integrity of the electoral process, should vote for this provision unanimously.

Robert Kuttner is co-editor of The American Prospect and a professor at Brandeis University’s Heller School. His latest book is Can Democracy Survive Global Capitalism? Follow him on Twitter at @rkuttnerwrites.

ALSO ON HUFFPOST OPINION
 Opinion | Jazmine Headley’s Arrest Shows What America Thinks Of Poor Black Women
 Opinion | The Comey Transcript Shows How House Republicans Are Using Their Last Days In Power
 Opinion | The Russians Meddled In Our Democracy, But They Had All-American Help
MORE:
North Carolina  Republican Party United States  Voter Fraud  Voter Suppression
by TaboolaSponsored LinksYou May Like
Before you renew Amazon Prime, read this
Wikibuy
'Americas Favorite Veterinarian' Reveals The One Thing Every Dog Owner Should Do
Ultimate Pet Nutrition
A Fast Way To Pay Off $10,000 In Credit Card DeNerdwallet
Stop Doing This 1 Thing With Your Passwords
TruthFinder Guardian
These Are 2018's Best Luxury Vehicles for Seniors
Luxury Vehicles | Search Ads
Reclusive Millionaire Warns: "Get Out Of Cash Now"
Investing Outlook

AdChoices
TRENDING
Weekly Standard Co-Founder Calls Rep. Steve King ‘Foul, Disgusting Liar’
Melania Trump Spokeswoman Rips ‘Offensive’ CNN Op-Ed
Gov. Andrew Cuomo Calls For Legalization Of Recreational Marijuana In New York
Michael Flynn’s Business Partner Indicted Ahead of Trump Aide’s Sentencing
The Quiet Crisis Killing Black Women
At 71, Richard Carpenter Finally Opens Up About Karen
Advertisement by Idolator
ADVERTISEMENT BY LENDINGTREE
Brilliant Tip For Paying Off Your Mortgage In Half The Time
Subscribe to The Morning Email.
Wake up to the day's most important news.

address@email.com

